show on the road. Can we get the
recording? There we go. Very good.
Welcome everybody. This is the regular
board of finance meeting February 25th
uh 7:03 p.m.
>> We will start with the pledge of
allegiance for the second time tonight.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
republic for its stands. One nation
under God, indivisible with liberty and
justice for all.
>> Okay. Thank you. All right. So let's
look at our agenda. So this is as
everybody may recall a regular meeting.
So uh after we do public speak, we do
have changes, additions possible if if
anybody has that. Um
uh so let me just quickly do the public
speak then. Uh Brienne Liier
>> just listening right now.
>> Okay. Welcome
Linda Fish. Long time no see. How you
doing?
>> Okay, all set.
>> Okay, very good.
Um,
let's see. Marcy, you're still here. Uh,
you want to have anything here?
>> No, no, thanks. I'm good. Thanks.
>> Okay. Uh, Joanne, I feel like I just
talked to you.
>> And I promise not saying more. Um, I'm
here to listen. I said my piece. Thank
you.
>> Very good.
Um,
and then we do have some uh board of
selectman members here who um, you know,
we were just in a meeting, but I could
quickly ask you guys um, Scott, do you
have anything?
>> I'm good. Thank you, Robert.
>> Okay. Thank you. Um,
let's Carol, do you have anything
further?
>> Just listening, Rob. Thank you.
>> Okay. No, no worries.
I think that's it. Let me know if I've
missed anyone, please. Um, okay. So, uh,
yeah. Do we have any proposed changes or
additions to our agenda?
>> I was trying to keep this one relatively
tight. Um,
>> yeah,
>> in fact, I was I would argue since I
haven't gotten an update on it that we
even strike 5D. Uh, I just don't know
that there's anything to discuss there
right now. And we have other things on
our plate. we can kick it to a later
meeting. Um
I'm and 5C. I don't know if we really
have anything further on that either,
but we can just leave it on and tick
them off. I don't care either way, guys.
Anybody got anything? Any any thoughts?
No. Okay. Well, let's just proceed. Um
so, we have next up is town
administrator's report. Now, I think Jim
had sent us a copy of your your report
for the select board. the last select
board meeting,
>> right? And I got some updates on all of
it. So, I'm it's it's actually good to
show progress, right?
>> It is. It is. Floor is yours, sir.
>> Thank you. So, um uh Jeff had already
commented on the the first item, the um
I sat in and to Joannne's uh comment
about the search committee. It was a
very serious group and uh they did do a
lot of work and they asked some in-depth
questions. they certainly didn't um you
know pull any punches in there and uh
they did a good job with those four
candidates and uh I only I only sat on
the first two rounds. I know two were uh
put forward so I know it's in the board
of selectman's hands now. Um the
veterans field grant
this is remember there's two grants
involved with the vets field. There's a
steep grant which is going to cover the
it's half a million dollars is going to
cover a lot of the pickle ball courts
and a lot of other areas. The the uh
legislative appropriation grant is
what's referenced here. That's $250,000
um for the playcape basically.
And um at the time we had received we
were kind of in waiting mode. We had
received a financial assistance
agreement. We executed it. We were
waiting to get it back and that kind of
holds up everything. Well, the good news
today was I received the fully executed
agreement. Uh I now have the requisition
form and so I will be spending time with
Jeff, but I'll be spending time on that
so we can put in for the uh the three
quarters to date, which is 1875
on that grant, the first three quarters
of that grant. Um,
and it's coming in good time because we
do have a supplier that's looking uh to
get paid on the playground equipment.
Uh, Jeff and Jeff, we're going to take a
look at some numbers on the uh senior
transportation garage, another steep
grant. I did talk just so the state
knows we're we're involved. I talked to
the um uh the rep on that and he told
me, you know, when you do go ahead, you
have some outlays with that, but we can
put in uh we don't have to wait till the
end to put in for the requisitions. We
don't have to expend all the money to
get the grant back. We can do it
periodically and actually faster than
quarterly, which was a bit of a surprise
to me. I thought quarterly was the uh
the fastest you could do it. So, that
was good. Um that was good news there.
Uh we had received paperwork from USDA
on the uh the the generator that's going
to service fire town hall and the
community center backup generator. Uh
it's a USDA grant.
We were contacted by um someone out of
Boston who's kind of the liaison on
that. And I've been waiting. Today must
be a good day. they must know it's my
second to last day. Um, that rep finally
got me got back to me today after a
couple attempts and said, "Sure, she can
meet next week." And it's important we
can't really do that application. And
again, this is an odd thing with the
federal grant. It was a federal earmark.
So, we've got the money, but now we have
to apply for the money. It's kind of an
odd odd process, but you want to do the
application and the project narrative in
the way they want to do it. So, it makes
sense to listen to them and uh follow
their lead on it. Um, so bid openings
did take place on February 3rd for
Longill Bridge. Um, since that time, now
again, this is a a DOT funded project.
they hire a consultant uh to do the work
on that. And before I started, there was
a an RFP process for construction
inspection services firm that was
awarded to the same firm SLR that did
the uh Bunker Hill project as it turned
out. So since the bid opening, DOT is
still and their consultant is still kind
of pouring through those bids. You know,
it's supposed to be lowest and best um
to get the job for the contractor and
they're still verifying numbers. There's
probably about two um and Jeff was in
the room for this. It's kind of an
interesting process. Two, maybe three
that are in the running. And as soon as
they verify who is the best and the
lowest, uh, they will choose that and
we'll we'll know that. But SLR is now on
board. We're awaiting their contract so
we can sign it. Um, the snow is not
really holding things up because the
planned notice to proceed on that
project was going to be April 1 anyway.
So, uh, maybe the snow will cooperate
with DO's
process and we'll be ready to go time.
>> Yes.
>> Hey, Jim,
>> can I ask you a question?
>> Sure.
>> Um, I'm trying to understand um SLR
versus the Connecticut State DOT. So,
you're saying the Connecticut State DOT
is going through the bids and they need
to verify their numbers
>> of the contract.
Say that again.
>> Of the of the contractor of the project,
the general contractor on the project,
the bridge builder. SLR is the
construction inspection services firm.
They make sure everything is done
correctly.
>> Okay. Thank you for that.
>> And we just got an email from the Army
Corps say there's a lot of layers in
this in this in these bridge projects.
>> Yep. Okay. I just needed to get
clarification between those two steps.
>> Yeah, I may have confirmed.
>> Go ahead.
>> Uh, animal control, Jeff kind of alluded
to it. Uh, NECOG was going to drop
non-NECOG towns from services. You all
know they have decided after some push
back at a meeting that was held
about a month or so ago um to um to
allow them. but they are raising the
costs considerably not only for their
member towns but for non-member towns.
So that's again a suggestion what
direction um the board of selectman
wants to go. There are not a lot of
avenues out there for for animal control
and um
and it's it's it's not a cheap process
that's for sure.
Um
>> and are we are we non- Niko?
>> We're not Niko. We're Crag Capital
Region
>> versus Northeast. Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Um so we are working on the Mnt
um financial change of signitories
and global administrators with my
departure. Uh, in fact, once again, the
day before I leave, we got some uh
emails back to to to do that to appoint
new signitories on the uh on the uh
checking account. So, there's an
affidavit that has to be filled out and
we'll uh we'll take care of that
tomorrow, too.
uh public works is you know the the big
issue uh was a statewide
um you know kind of der of uh of salt
coming in to the port of uh bridge
Bridgeport and uh it's it's it hasn't
improved any. So what Eric has done is
kind of mix some salt and sand to kind
of get us through. I think he's got a,
you know, they keep promising shipments
and they promised one this week and
after the storm hit, they now delayed it
till next week. But he did kind of
demand they give him 200 tons of just of
some salt just to to keep us going. Um
the budget will reflect that both um
overtime in salt expenditure and
overtime in uh public works will be
reflected in that budget for this year
and it's only the end of February. So
those are still preliminary numbers.
uh the draft POCD, plan of conservation
development, uh had been updated on
February 17th. If this was announced
previously, if some of you were able to
go to it, um I hope you were. If you
were not, if there's a public hearing on
March 17th, so you can uh comment on
that. If anyone doesn't have that u that
draft, I can send it to you. I think
I've made it available to uh certainly
the board of select, but I don't know if
I've included you folks in it.
The Percy Cook Trail, that's the trail
behind uh town hall. Um that's kind of
it's getting close to a a crossroads in
my last sentence there that we need
approval from BOS to move forward. Um
preliminary design is done by the end of
July. Barton and Logan Dice will be
providing us with 30%
um design drawings. And the move forward
is now that we know what it looks like
and now that we have uh a design in
place, do we want to go forward um
back to deep for a recreational trails
uh grant to fund this project? Do you
know do do we have the buyin from the
town on it? And what what I'm I've asked
Kevin to do is if they have room in the
schedule for the next meeting on um I
guess it's March 9th uh to have him give
kind of a comprehensive update because
Kevin Grindel is with BNL and uh he
presented to the board of education and
if the board of selectman maybe back
when Eric first uh embraced this thing
they may have presented but it's it's
time for an update there.
Um, small thing, the sustainable
committee has requested that we mount
the bronze designation that was received
by the town in the lobby of the town
hall and um
I had asked the board of selectment if
they had a specific location. I believe
it was the community room. I don't think
Willie has gotten around to putting that
up yet. Then
uh there was an issue with the transfer
station with one of the compactors. We
took care of that. That was uh during
that very frigid uh weekend or week. And
um the good thing about Cassella is when
you have a contract with them, they take
care of their own um compactors and and
and equipment there. So there was no no
charge uh for that.
One of the items that I've been dealing
with which has been kind of constant and
maybe some of you have been affected is
is snow plowing and mailboxes. got a lot
of people calling me say the town
knocked down my mailbox. What are you
gonna do about it? Well, there is a
policy in place. The board of selectment
adopted it back in 21 and there is a
form they can fill out and submit to
public works and give pictures and try
and get the town to do it. But the the
hard and fast rule really is if a plow
hits your mailbox, the town's
responsible. If the plow throws snow on
your mailbox and it gets knocked down,
you're responsible.
So, I can't even tell you how many I
thought I was done with them after the
last storm and then it fired up again on
uh
>> there were a bunch down. I mean, mine I
think it was the last storm. Mine got
knocked over by I think the bow wave of
the plow, but luckily it was it's a it
popped off. It's a plastic thing and I
was able to stamp it back on. But I saw
neighbors all over the place with their
mailboxes down. I I really It probably
was mostly the snow being pushed, not
the plow hitting it. But
>> yeah, absolutely. And that was a was a
lighter snow the first time. I thought
we I thought actually was
>> Yeah, this one you would have thought,
but you know, I
>> So, any questions? That's kind of the
that's the update off that. And most
things are moving forward. And again,
I'll sit with Jeff tomorrow and map out
where some of these things are.
>> Jim, I have a question.
>> Sure. with with the Percy Cook Trail,
was that where the town would have to
kick in 50%.
>> I'm not sure on the specifics because
that was going if it's if it's um
I gave Jeff a memo on grants. Um
I can tell you
>> that's a an 8020 grant.
>> 8020. They usually are 8020. The 5050
grant you're thinking about is the
culvert across from uh Cheni over Cheny
Brook.
>> Okay.
>> And that one we're working on. We got to
find a different way.
>> Okay. Good. Thanks.
>> Anyone else?
Okay.
>> Thank you for that. All
right. If there's nothing further on the
town administrator's report, we have uh
some things in old business. I don't
know if we're really going to do too
much on all all of these, but review of
budget to actual and check register are
the first two. Now, we don't have a
don't think we have a full packet here,
do we?
>> We have an agenda. We do. Yeah, we have
an agenda, but again, because of the
snow and some people being out sick, I
think uh this week, we didn't get our
packets, so I don't know that we can do
anything there. Uh so, we may just have
to push that. Oh, Lisa, you're muted.
>> Um on now, but I gave it I sent that
budget to actual that was in your first
email today, tonight, this afternoon
that I sent.
>> Oh, I'm sorry. Um okay, let me look at
that. No, I wasn't sure what Kate had
sent before she left a couple weeks ago
and then she's been out so I wasn't
sure. So, I just sent the budget to
actual.
>> I didn't know if she had sent the
register already.
>> And you sent that today?
>> Yeah, at about 4:00 maybe.
>> So, I see
>> should you got the others I sent right?
>> Treasurer's report. Is this Oh, there it
is. I'm sorry. I think
I think the the ray line of the email
threw me off uh because it was
preliminary budget and it said it says
it's actually no before that there's one
that's the ray line is preliminary
budget but the actual document attached
is the treasurer report.
>> Oh
>> that's why I missed it. Lisa
>> no worries.
>> I keep having problems with
>> a couple people's emails are dead.
They're not working. So I've got a I'm
trying to get it and make sure. Yeah,
there's a couple. And one of them was
yours. Wouldn't let it send, but I
wondered if it was the size limit, too.
>> Okay.
>> So, I'm not sure.
>> I got I mean, I got the email. I have
the email. It worked. Um,
>> yeah.
>> And, you know, all our emails should be
accurate on the town website under the
board of finance. I think they're all
>> Oh, those are Yes. It's the There's two
private emails I think that
>> Yeah, I just dropped the just dropped my
private email off of there. I used to
have it on there because when I was very
years and years ago, I had some
technical issues getting my town email
working and that's long gone. My town
email works just fine now. So, just
don't worry about it. Just drop that.
>> Yeah, I was left with a list of both.
So, I've been sending it to both.
>> I understand.
Um, okay. So, obviously from that little
exchange, you can tell that I haven't a
chance to look at this. Is there
anything that you would want to call our
attention to
that in terms of anything being out of
whack that you that you've noticed? Um,
>> just looking at it really quick.
>> There's a couple of quick salary
questions I have, but I'm just wondering
if they're in the right line.
>> I see where clerk fees are way over
budget.
>> Yeah, I did see that, too. And I wonder
um
Jeff and I were talking about that and I
want to make sure that um the trash
sales the bag sales are in the right
line. I'm not sure. So I've got that
>> edition stickers
>> the stickers.
>> So we're we're not sure that they have
been posted the deposits have been
posted to the appropriate revenue
account and we'll work on all that.
There's also something in there, Jeff,
that says 490 penalties collected, and
that was a large amount. So, I don't
know what that is.
>> Not sure.
>> 490 is related to uh
um an assess somebody had their land
valued as wooded 490. Carol would know
more about the term, but
>> 490 and it's either farmland forestry
and they guarantee that they won't
develop for 10 years. So if they do so
or sell, they pay the penalty, the
assessor rates, prorates the amount.
>> Yeah, I looked really quick and it said
something about 490 penalties collected.
So I'll have to look into that, see if
that's where it belongs.
A few of the office supplies are up
slightly, but they're small. They're
like a $200 budget, so they're not
really up that bad. Um
the medical drug testing is is way up at
for Town Garage and I'm not sure if
there's been a lot of hires,
but um there's something in there from
CCM.
Um so I've got to look Oh no, that was
um
yeah, I've got to look into that because
there's there's something in there that
doesn't look like medical drug testing.
Also on
public works grounds, your the
memberships are high, but it's cuz there
is training going on for a tree warden.
So that looks a little bit high. It's
like 844%.
Um
that temporary public works salary in
line 4399
department that looks a little high
there. I'm sure there's something behind
that that I'm not aware of because I
just arrived here.
Are you looking at
>> Are you looking at the profit and loss?
Is that what you're looking at?
>> Yes, but it's called actual.
>> Yeah, it's profit to loss, budget to
actual.
>> It's a probably a different report than
you've gotten in the past. Receive it.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. I'm having a hard time keeping up
because I don't know what line number,
what page we're on. If you
>> if we were just on page six, uh,
>> y Okay, look at the department number
like I said for 4399 public works.
>> That's on page seven at the bottom.
>> Seven. Yeah.
>> Yep.
>> Okay, I'm with you now.
>> And then look over in the far right
column percentage of budget and it says
844%. So that's really high. That's way
over.
>> Oh, okay. Gotcha. Oh,
>> yeah.
>> All right. And the temp salary, I see
that too. 315.
>> Yes. Yep. Yeah. So, I'm not sure why
that is.
>> The other one that was much earlier on
was um assistant town clerk that was
above
>> Yeah, there's a couple salaries in
there.
>> I think we talked about that. I'm just
I'm you know, right off the top of my
head, I'm not remembering. Um
>> let's see.
Just
I see. Okay. Medical drug testing. Yep.
Um
>> in fire
>> snow removal. We That's showing up.
That's expected. We talked about that.
Uh
>> the snow removal that really isn't too
bad because this is only till January
31st.
>> It's going that's going to get worse.
>> Yes, it is. It is unfortunately this
through the 31st, but these this
February has been brutal.
>> Yes.
>> Yep.
>> Um it is that's you know just is what it
is literally. Um
okay. Uh let's see.
My apologies for just sitting here going
um uh as I scroll through here, but
office supplies, but that's just a
pittance. Um
>> yeah, I'm not what's veterans
>> legal professionals. Is it legal
professional?
>> Legal is up a little. Yeah.
>> Planning in the planning and zoning is
118%.
>> What page you want?
>> Why would that be? Why would that be?
Planning and zoning. The legal
>> Oh, I'm sorry.
>> Um,
>> that's page 11.
>> Thank you.
>> Page 11. Yeah,
>> I had I had quite got to 11.
>> Okay. Sorry.
>> Okay. No worries. No worries. Legal
professional under P&Z. I see it. 1,870
over. budgeted for 10,000 and we're at
11870. I mean I correct me if I'm wrong.
That could be disputes
>> over assessments.
>> No.
>> Oh, is that what that
>> is? Not assessments. Okay. Sorry.
>> We have an ongoing we have an ongoing
lawsuit through
>> and we'll have I'll have more
information for you next month. I've
been trying to sit there and deal with
the attorney on that issue. And there's
also a
an issue related to animal control and
it's going to be another problem that's
going to come up larger in February.
>> When you say issue issue related to
animal control, we're not just talking
about how we're handling the increased
cost that we were just talking about.
>> No, no, that's a you're talking about a
legal dispute issue,
>> correct? Okay.
>> There is a uh
there's an active
animal control
lawsuit that animals were taken from a
resident's from a resident and it's uh
it's progressing through court. So, I'm
trying to get a handle on who's
controlling the attorneys and the
attorney's fees.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. I mean, I don't know if that's
something that our insurer is generally,
you know, would handle or not.
No, it's actually a
it's a
it's actually the resident was arrested.
I mean, it's a pain and and I'm just
seeing the bills because I'm signing the
checks. So, I'm trying to figure out why
and who's on who's in control because we
do the animal control through um
>> the Northeastern Conference of
Governments
>> and
the attorney is one of our attorneys
that does mostly the planning and zoning
work, but I'm just wondering who is
controlling their hours. So, I'm working
on it, but it's gonna Okay.
>> Okie do.
So we can expect a larger overage there.
Um
contingency. Um you know we budget
50,000 every year for this. Um it looks
like we've spent we've used $2,000 out
of contingency. I just don't recall what
that was for.
>> What page are you on there?
>> Oh, sorry. Page 12. This is transfers
990. Uh the first line
>> contingency. We have a $50,000
contingency fund every year. That's this
is what we do. And typically to tap
that, I always thought we were asked. So
I just I mean $2,000 is not a bank
breaker, but I just don't know what that
is.
>> Um says it's a tax abatement
eligibility.
>> Huh. From contingency.
Is it written out to the chief?
>> Yes. Well, it says for Andover Fire
Department.
>> Okay. Uh we we're going to need to look
at that, Rob. I don't believe it should
be there, but it was probably the
easiest place for the finance department
to put it. Um
>> it was back in July.
>> It it would have been um
I have to research it, but I would think
it's a the chief of the fire department
lives in Colombia. and doesn't get
doesn't avail he's not availed himself
of the the tax abatements that we
provide for the fire department. So,
it's probably the way that they
compensated him. But I do believe that
the board of selectman approved that
because of the longtime service that um
the chief has put in for the town. So,
let me look into it. I'll get back to
you next meeting.
>> Okay. I appreciate that cuz I just
don't, you know, again, typically if
we're dipping into contingency, you
know, we get briefed on it. That's all.
Um, you know, that's, you know, if
that's the answer, Jeff, I understand. I
I vaguely recall that situation. Um, but
yeah, get back to us on that, please.
>> We just need to find a better place to
put it. It's not It's not where it
should go, but
>> Yep.
>> the treasurer and the and the
Well, I mean, for me, just looking at
it, literally scrolling through it
tonight, that's what I've got for
questions on that. Does anyone else see
anything that they want to raise since
we have Lisa here to help us and Jeff
here to help us?
All right. Hearing none.
All right. So, that's budget actual. Do
we have do we have the check register or
is this
>> I wasn't sure if it it was sent. So, I
did not send that.
>> I don't see it. Uh, if I if anybody else
got it, fine. But I don't see any email
about it. I know that um our usual um
>> Yeah.
>> person was sick yesterday.
>> Yes. Y
>> So, we just may not have it, which is
unfortunate, but let's let's kick it, I
guess, then to next meeting. We do what
we can. Um so, I would say we move on.
We don't have a check register. There's
nothing to do on 5B. Donation request.
This was something we're probably not
going to take any do anything with this
tonight. Lisa, you may recall we had a
brief discussion about this. We had a
resident in town who was asking us about
could we take in credible donations. And
one of the things we had talked about
with our prior treasurer before they
left was
what could we do about this given that
the town is actually attempting to
consolidate its accounts as much as
possible and so forth. I think given
where we are in the budget process and
everything that's going on, this should
be tabled.
>> I don't I doubt we've had any chance for
to get to that. Uh, so let's just kind
of let's pump let's let's pump that for
a month or two, get through the budget,
and come back to that issue with
apologies, of course, to that good town
resident who wants to help our town, and
here we are. We can't even figure out
how to do it. Uh, so yeah, we'll we'll
move on to that bathroom renovation. I
haven't um been focusing on that right
now. I don't have an update for you. Uh,
so again, I have nothing new there. I
know there was some I I had heard some
chatter about walkthroughs, but that's I
I don't know the exact status and
frankly right now the main thing with
the AAS that we're working on is their
budget, not not that. So again, I would
propose we move on from that for now. We
can come back to it. Of course, we're
going to come back to it. That that's
we're not we're not done with that. Um
okay, the only other thing uh so new
business is blank here because I mean
really it's it's budget discussion. And
we can do that either now or or board
open discussion. Um unfortunately as we
discussed in our last meeting in the
joint meeting we don't have a lot
to work with at this moment. So um we
can maybe have a we can maybe discuss
more during board open discussion but I
don't have unfortunately I didn't put on
but uh I also don't know how much we're
going to be able to do on that. So
again, I would maybe move on to seven.
Um there, and this is me, I couldn't
make the CIP meeting. I know they had
one. I know there was a request from the
fire department. I do not know the
details. I had emailed Fred, the chair,
asking for detail cuz the the minutes
didn't really tell me and I haven't
gotten an answer on that. So I'm going
to have to come back to you guys. Uh I
don't know exactly what CIP heard and
did uh in their meeting. Unfortunately,
I was out of out of town. I was in
Boston. So, I couldn't make that
meeting.
>> Um, so under lean reports, well, we
didn't put it on there. We didn't put
AHM.
>> You went you went you went pretty quick,
Rob, on that.
>> Yeah.
>> The uh fire department presented a bill
to CIP for 100 $100,2952
for
>> Okay.
>> um the compressor
to fill their tanks.
So that's what they did. I'm not sure in
the minutes
if it got approved. So
>> was it a repair or is that a new item?
>> That's a new item.
>> Okay.
I'm just
>> Can you repeat what that was and how
much it was?
>> The compressor for filling their propane
tank is the item. And Jeff, sorry. Can
you repeat the number?
>> It's their air tanks.
>> Oh, they're air tanks. I apologize. I
thought it was the propane. their air
tanks. Um, so I'll read it I'll read it
from the notes. Fire department
compressor request. Uh, Wally Barton
presented a quote and answered questions
from committee members. The current
compressor used to fill the it's the
scuba but the safety tanks for fire
department members to go into buildings
with their masks on. Uh, dates to 1991
1991 and some parts becoming obsolete.
The committee discussed the request and
decided to entertain it again in a in a
future meeting pending receipt of
additional quotes. So what the CIP
members did was said you provided us one
quote for what I told youund and
$100,000 and uh CIP is asking them to
get additional quotes and they'll
they'll go back at it again.
>> So okay,
>> let's see what fire department does. Why
wasn't this brought up when at the time
when they were buying all the new
equipment for the the face masks and all
that other Sounds like it's connected,
right?
>> It does kind of seem that way. I kind of
agree with you, Liz. We'll have Wally
>> a little slight of hand. A little slight
of hand here.
>> I'll ask I will try to remember to ask
Wally that and on the not call it slight
of hand. What I would call it is the
fire department and public works are the
two most capital intensive departments
we have. So, the fire department will
consistently come and repair their their
equipment. So, uh whether we can spend
the money at any given point in time is
really the question that you guys will
have to sit there and deal with. But
they're always going to come. I mean,
hopefully hopefully it's not I mean, we
just bought a new piece of equipment, a
million- dollar truck for them. They
consolidated two other pieces of
equipment. They've got new tanks.
They're gonna they're asking for a new
compressor and uh you can ask Wall-E at
the next meeting what's next.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, he's going to
be presenting to us on the 4th. I will
ask him about this, you know, uh give us
the rundown. I miss the CIP Rally, so
help me out. And also,
yeah, um what's coming down the pike for
capital? And of course, this ties back
to my you my desire to get our arms
around what all our funds have in them
now. Um so that we can properly figure
out what we got to load in to properly
save.
>> You'll you'll you'll be able to get all
that data. The um
the tax collector being out on uh PTO uh
has uh put a little crimp in other
things as well. So because she's the
she's the primary revenue generator. So,
all of the information that uh has to be
put into the system uh by Lisa and her
team um will get done in the next week.
You'll get that information by your next
meeting hopefully.
>> Great.
>> Great. And I can tell you Lisa is is up
to date on uh I mean we do have way too
many bank accounts that that will also
be something that will be brought to
this board. Uh wanting to consolidate
bank accounts and also um try to do more
with our our our um stiff dollars
because our interest rate is declining.
So even on your budget you have $150,000
revenue line item that's probably not
going to be $150,000. We're going to
have to make some adjustments to that.
But we do have money and other funds
that if we sat there and consolidated
those bank accounts, kept the funds open
and understanding that that's where
money is supposed to be allocated, but
make ourselves make that money available
to us for even a opportunity to earn
interest will help us reduce taxes.
>> Absolutely. We want to get every dollar
we can into that stiff account.
um
lacking a packet. I don't believe we
have meeting minutes to look at.
So, another thing I think we have to
punt.
>> Yeah, I did um
type the um the little blurb to add to I
think it was the December minutes that
we talked about.
>> You had you didn't like the December
minutes, the lack of detail, I think you
wanted to add.
>> Yeah. So, and I did forward it to
Marina. Um, I think that was the process
to forward it to her. And I thought we
were going to have it in our packet to
discuss today. Um,
if you want, I can forward you all that
uh that blurb or we can just wait till
next month. I mean, I think punting is
fine.
>> I'm I'm fine to I'm fine to wait for
that. Um my main concern is you know for
these next four meetings is to get
through everything we can and you know
the meeting minutes we can we can sort
later honestly um unless anybody
disagree I mean I don't want to run rush
out here but that just seems like the
right way to go to me. Yeah, meeting
minutes are I mean in my opinion
>> they're important. It's important and
and we important to get things
documented but um a month here or there
is not going to
>> right we we have our meetings recorded
too which helps
>> um so okay so let's punt that um so that
takes us to board open discussion which
so here Louise I wasn't clear did you
want to talk more about AHM and this
might be a good time to do it uh or were
you good were you kind of good with what
you'd given us and want us to just kind
of look at that and talk about it in a
further meeting. What was your thought?
>> I think actually it's probably best if
you look at the presentation because I
did ask a lot of questions in it and
trusted to give me good answers. So I
want everyone to kind of review it and
put their own spin on it
>> there.
>> Yeah, maybe we can talk about it next
time or
>> Oh, we can decide on it next time. That
would be great to get one more thing.
>> Well, when is the vote? Don't we have to
have two people go and vote yes or no to
their budget?
>> Um I'm not sure when the vote is. I
think it's more of I'll have to find
that out.
>> Sorry.
>> Yeah. So I think that's why two people
go and it is uh the budget is a 5%
increase.
>> Yes.
>> Um over
last year. It's actually a little bit
over five. It's a little bit different
for each town. Um, ours I think because
ours is the lowest, ours equates to the
equates to the larger percentage. So,
we're a little over five%
increase.
>> I thought it was a little less than
five.
>> Um, he said it was a little less than
five, but
>> he said it was a little less than, but I
do the math and it's a little over.
>> Yeah, we have on our spreadsheet is 5.08
if that's the accurate number.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, that's what I recall. Yeah, he did
say that. You're right, Heather.
>> As far as the voting, as far as the
voting though, as I remember from last
year,
>> I we present it to the board of finance.
We look at it and we decide whether we
want to go with that. That's that's our
vote and that's for Andover.
So, it's not it would be just me and um
>> uh May, right, if she can attend the
next meeting. But it's more we present
it back to you guys.
>> When is their next meeting, Luis?
>> That you guys will be attending.
>> They didn't mention that. I I normally
just get in touch with them. I mean,
because um Jim did not go to that first
meeting when I went to this last
meeting. It was an update.
>> Oh, Linda knows.
>> Linda. Linda, do you know?
>> I had to get the unmuted. Um
>> yeah, the meeting was and the meeting
and the vote was two or three weeks ago
and nobody from the town of Ando
Andover, the board of selectman or the
board of finance showed up. Um I believe
the town I don't know who was contacted,
but I know contacts
>> had been sent out.
>> So this by the time I heard about it, I
don't I don't I think it was all over.
So this was a special get together they
had the other day for it was supposed to
be Louise and Annne Crema and Anne
wasn't there so Louise was the only one
there to talk to Cress Cresa Tresa. So
that's what I know right now.
>> So they held the vote on they held the
vote for to support the budget before
they did the presentation.
>> No, I guess there was no vote. The
presentation was two or three weeks ago.
I'm sorry. And nobody from the town of
Andover was there,
>> right? There might have been a vote if
they had been,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. But the town of Andover can read
the material and
get back to the AHM and tell them how
they vote.
>> Okay.
>> Right.
>> So I I think we're going to want to do
that in, you know, the next two
meetings. One of the next two meetings.
>> Yeah. So the the five though I think was
for the three towns together. So one of
them was over five, one was less. That's
how we're like 4.84.
>> Five was the the total.
>> All right. Hang on.
>> Andover is something like 4.8 when you
get down to the real nitty-gritty.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> So
>> I think
five one of them was over five.
>> One was less. And so it comes out to
4.84 94 or something like that.
>> Okay. Then our then our budget
spreadsheet has the wrong number. Then
if that's the case,
>> I don't
>> cuz it's computing out to 5.08.
>> 5.08 is what I computed on my own Excel
like I populated into an Excel um
>> what calculation I that's what I came
out with for Andover. But the other
thing too is um what she had said in the
presentation was that one of the towns
wasn't happy
with the increase with the 5ish%
increase.
>> She didn't say which one,
>> but I personally think 5% is a lot. Uh
maybe I mean for us, I'm trying to
remember exactly how much it is for us.
Let's see. Looks like about $65,000.
Uh, by the way, the number in the
spreadsheet's right. According to this
document I'm looking at here, the the
municipal YSB formula document has us at
and last year it has us at 106953.
So just uh sorry for so $55,000 sorry of
an increase. Is that right? Yeah, just
about 5436. That's the Sorry. Linda, are
you uh are you asking to join us again?
>> Yeah. Um I just, you know, I used to go
to AHM and my husband's the president,
so I used to be the person that went to
all the oversight committee meetings and
there's new people here and I don't know
if they realize that this is a nonprofit
organization. Most towns have to pay
full price and really we're paying
between the three towns only 37% of what
the full bill to co run AHM
you know costs. So
>> yeah,
>> you know, it might be going up 5% but
we're still getting a deal.
>> I mean that that was always my
understanding and kind of take on AHM
that we're lucky we're kind of lucky to
have them. But yeah,
>> I also understand, you know, it's a
tough budget year and you you do need to
ask the question. Okay. 5%
>> and they are nonprofit.
>> Um,
>> so they do their best with grants.
>> I guess the big question would be
fundraisers
>> if we really had an issue. I mean,
what's our alternatives, the realistic
alternatives for going in another
direction? You know, if for some reason
we wanted to do that, uh, what would
that even entail? So,
>> you know, let's let's let's you know, we
have that presentation. We should look
at it
>> and see if we can talk about I'm
guessing the 11th might be the better
day for us to talk about it. The 4th,
we've got two presentations, one of
which is AES.
>> I'm just guessing that that's going to
take a lot of that meeting. But if we
can get to it the fourth fine, we can
throw it on the agenda. And if we can't,
we can boot it to the 11th and try to
take action then.
My only concern about that, Rob, is when
when does AHM need our votes either, you
know, to in support or not of that?
>> Yeah, I don't want to blow their
timeline. I completely agree with you. I
It sounds like it's a bit ad hoc because
we're already kind of behind. Can you
check, Louise? Thank you.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> Uh because if we need if we need to take
action in the fourth, then we just bite
the bullet and we do that.
>> Okay. Okay, sounds good.
>> I mean, unfortunately, Liz isn't going
to be there, which is the downside, but
um we'll have to
>> That's okay. I I can I can trust you all
to make a good decision.
>> And I just have one more thing. Uh if
>> I don't know how that's going to impact
AES if we were to reduce the but reduce
it or even stop doing that because they
get that one and a half percent one and
a half uh people during the week as
support. So I'm not sure.
>> Right.
>> Well, there's a discussion we can try to
remember to bring that up with Valerie
on the 4th. Um, and I'm not
>> because I know I've talked to her about
AHM before, but I don't rec you know,
there's a lot of information and I don't
know if I've retained it all, so it's
probably best to ask the question.
>> Okay.
>> Sorry, Louis. Go ahead. Liz, go ahead. I
apologize.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I'm not I'm not suggesting
we opt out of AHM. I'm not saying that
at all. Just I want to be clear about
that.
>> Okay. If anything, my point is, do we
want to support the 5% increase or do we
like one of the other towns say it's a
little bit high?
>> Right.
>> That's that's all.
>> I wouldn't be surprised if Hebrin had an
issue just because they're like half of
the budget.
>> Yes.
>> They've got such a bigger town.
>> Um
>> Well, yeah. I think I think Hebrin's
staring down a large ed increase as
well. Um,
>> yeah,
>> I I can't remember the the number, but I
think their their board of ed is coming
in pretty high, too. So, I wouldn't be
surprised situation.
>> My other thing about the AHM is um since
I'm not going to be here next week
because I'll be on a cruise ship and
most likely won't be calling in. Um and
I know um my only thought about AHM is I
know that in past years they had I don't
know 5 days a week they had assistance
there in the school in AES
>> but in the past three years they cut
that back to the the minimum which is we
get a person and a half is it a day I
mean I'm sorry a day and a half
>> a day and a half
>> a week a day and a half a week
>> of Um, is it mental health a mental
health provider or
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, I think I think it is. It's either
out or evaluations. Linda, do you have
details that?
>> Yeah.
>> Um, hi. Yeah. um
since the
current um administrator whatever
Valerie um
>> superintendent
>> she's the one that put it down to the
smallest limit
that the schools has to have.
And again, it's per state statute that
we have
um
a mental health or
my mind's gone, but um yeah, so she cut
it down to the minimum.
>> So that's why you had more before
Valerie. I don't know her reasoning, but
you did have additional services before
she was here.
>> She may have shifted some over to the
school psychologist or something. I we
can ask her about that. I I I feel like
I've talked to her about that. I just
cannot access that brain cell right now.
So, apologies.
>> Actually, can let's bring it up on the
fourth, guys.
>> Can I ask Linda one last question,
Linda? Because they reduced it down to
that. Um, is that the money that the
town is putting in for that paying for
that person for that day and a half of
that person? pay for that day and a
half, but you're also paying for um help
at the high school, too.
>> Okay.
>> So, our bill includes the elementary
school, the junior high, and the high
school.
>> Okay?
>> But the elementary school is not asking
for additional services. They just have
the smallest
available to me.
And of course and of course ahm does the
evals for you know birth to three
>> as well
>> just just so I understand I mean the
this bill looks like it's being
generated off of our number of students.
>> So
>> it is
>> I mean there's no there's no
>> there's no adjustment for the limiting
of the services that we receive it
there's
>> because there's still the junior high
and the high school.
>> Yeah. But what I'm saying students.
>> What I'm saying, what I'm asking is
>> if the bill is based upon students and
we would be,
>> you know, you're not giving us a reduced
rate because we're only taking a day and
a half.
>> If you pro I can't look at it, but if
you looked at the bill from before Val
and then after Val, you might see it
four or five years ago. But I'm no
longer
attend the the AHM meetings and
I just know that but it's all and but
then the whole bill
if it's $10,000 to run or $10 million to
run AHM they they figure out like we're
a third and somebody else is a quarter
and somebody else is whatever.
>> I mean
>> and that's how they apply the bill. I
got it. And and I would just tell the
board that, you know, the bill five
years ago was 89,000. The current bill
that they're asking for is $112,000.
>> Well, I I know also that the services
have increased at the
>> Yeah, this is the thing that I think
Louise sent around today
>> kind of showing and the one thing about
this is this this is just Andover. It
doesn't show us the other towns, but it
shows kind of our usage
>> rising.
>> Um,
I guess the thing to to think about
would be okay, but what how does that
compare visav Hebra and Visa V Marra?
>> Okay. If
>> I don't know if we can get that
>> something used to say municipal services
or formula or something and I'm just
trying to think off the top of my head.
It did list all the towns and what the t
the population and the cost for all the
towns.
>> We have we have that and we have this
other thing called Andover resident
usage fiscal years 2013 2014 and fiscal
year 2015 2024 2025. Sorry, I'm probably
getting the numbers messed up. And the
secondary document is is not a budgetary
document. It's a document that gives us
uh kind of numbers for people served
over a fiscal course of a fiscal year in
Andover.
>> Yes.
>> And you see it's rising.
>> Yeah. Right.
>> The thing I guess to to kind of go with
what Jeff's talking about or and Liz is
asking about would be is if if I assume
there's a comparable document for Hebrin
and a comparable document for Marro and
you could kind of like look and see okay
is is the levy division that's kind of
it seems like a quick and dirty of way
of doing it the way they do it which is
just the based on the number of
students. I don't know how much
difference it would make, but if you if
you had the data for usage rates in both
towns, maybe you could make some
argument that well,
>> okay,
>> based on Steve if it was included in the
packet and if it wasn't, I can have
Tresa send it to Louise or she can talk
to Tresa and get it. If it wasn't
included in your packet,
>> that would be great. Um just so we you
know just forformational purposes I'm
certainly not proposing anything at this
time but
>> it sort of speaks to that question I
think if what's the actual usage rate
versus just a just kind of just doing it
based on a ratio of what your student
populations are.
>> Yeah. But I I guess I don't know. I'm
just trying to think back. I I'm just
going to pick a number. 20 years ago
they were trying to figure figure out a
rule to how to divide it between the
towns
>> and
that made the most sense.
>> Oh, I I you know, again, I'm not
proposing that we do it a different way.
I'm saying that
>> I guess I'm saying that just from a
getting information standpoint so that
you could even think about whether it
makes even a lick of sense to talk about
doing it that way.
>> Let's get the info and then can noodle
around about it. But I mean, my personal
take on ahm has always been very
positive. I, you know, I remember when
my kids were toddlers and we, you know,
went to some stuff with them and had
them evaluated for this or that and, um,
so I personally think they're a valuable
service, but yeah, we're we're looking
at every component of this budget in a
year that we know is going to be tough.
So,
>> well,
>> I I hope I hope nobody takes this
attack. It's not meant that way.
>> No, it's too expensive for the town to
go out on their own. even Columbia
>> Colia's grade school and I don't know if
they have junior high school um
>> they actually buy services from AHM
because it was cheaper for them. They're
better economically than going out and
getting their own clinical
staff,
>> right? Having their own school
psychologist and maybe assistant or
whatever they'd need to to hit whatever
they need to by statute. If that's the
case,
>> if if if that is the case, can you get a
full budget for them? Because what we
got is just uh how they calculated out
the Andover, Hein, and Marboral amounts,
but if there's extra,
that would be helpful to have the full
budget like this is what we're spending,
this is what we have coming in from the
three towns, from other towns.
Um
>> I don't know, Louise. Yeah, there's this
there's a pie chart. It doesn't give you
real
>> a lot of that.
>> Say that again, Louise.
>> I'll ask Tresa that.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> I get it from her.
>> Yeah. The only thing that I see in the
annual report that they sent us that
Louise shared with us, I think it was um
you know, town municipal support is 43%
of their budget, 43.2%.
And then they've got grant money and
they've got program revenue/personal
service agreements. And I bet you that's
28.2% of their revenue. I bet you that's
where that is.
If they're, you know, if they're getting
money from Colombia or what have you.
>> And those personal service agreements
are the ones that if you wanted to do
more than a day and a half, you would be
paying the school would be paying it out
of their budget. They would have to set
up one of those agreements. So that's
the money that's coming in.
>> Yes. And Hebrin has extra services and
if if you want
>> pay for borrow borrow too,
>> right?
>> Yep.
>> I'll ask.
>> Yeah. My question is my question and
since I'm not going to be here I'll
throw that out there is
are there are there services that AHM
can provide that might take the place of
other services like I know they've got
at AES so they used to have a person in
there five days a week it's been cut
down would it save them any money you
know say from a psychologist standpoint
instead of hiring a full-time person
with benefits and whatnot, you know. I
don't know. Maybe it would be just as
much or more. Just um thinking out loud.
>> No, definitely. We can definitely raise
that. Uh I I'm with Valerie on the
fourth. Uh that seems like a perfectly
reasonable question. I I feel like I've
asked it before and I just for the life
of me I can't remember her answer. So,
hey, better to hear it in front of the
whole board anyway. Um rather than have
me try to relay it and it's a game of
telephone. Uh, okay. So, we'll try to
get a little more info on that. I will
we'll we'll put it on our agenda. We'll
hope to continue to
get through that and hopefully get ahm
an answer soon so they're not just
waiting on us. Uh, you know, we don't
want to be the only people up against it
from a
scheduling standpoint. I don't know what
their schedule exactly is, but we should
find out too long. Yeah, let let us
know.
>> Okay.
>> Uh, let's see.
Yeah, I don't Their annual report is
only three pages. It didn't really It
was more of an infographic than
anything. So, yeah, we'll see what we
can get. Um, all right. So,
as a board, I mean, I'm reluctant to
start trying to chew through the budget
spreadsheet that we have at this time.
One one part of me would like to start
chipping away at it, but part of me is
like that, you know, these numbers have
to be tightened up. There's a lot of
question marks here. Um,
and I don't know how much value we add
by starting our process now on this
spreadsheet. You know what I mean? Uh,
any thoughts on that? I don't I don't
want to be the only one, you know, just
taking control of this. If if people
think that we can get into this thing
and, you know, do something useful, then
I'm willing to spend a little time on it
tonight. Uh, what are your thoughts?
What do you think, Liz? Um, do we want
to just maybe review it a little bit so
that maybe the newer people could um
take the newer people
>> Nick and Heather can Nick and Heather
can kind of if they have any questions
they can ask and then maybe they kind of
go over it on their own. How does
everybody feel about that? I mean, not
to drag out the meeting, but
>> I'm happy to do a high level kind of
review of it. And and one thing I will
mention to you guys, and I kind of
brought this up in in the prior meeting,
is that this isn't kind of the full
spreadsheet that we're used to getting.
This is a preliminary document, and the
full spreadsheet usually has more tabs
and more calculations and everything,
and we'll get there, right? So, for now,
we're just looking at uh the first pass
really, right? And some of the numbers
that are in here uh may be more solid
than others, but yeah. So we have as you
see at the top of this document does
everybody have it up and available or
should do say a sh do a share screen
share.
>> Yeah. Can we do can we do a screen share
and I mean I I thought I had it's open
in it's in Excel right?
>> Yeah I we got it by Excel. I have mine
up. I don't know. Let me look. I am such
a technical wizard here. Um
oh share. Let's see if I can do it.
sending a request to share.
>> You got this.
>> I think Jim may have to let me do it.
>> I'm looking for the
>> I think I can allow you.
>> You're good. Try.
>> Okay. Uh let's see. Presenter layout
content only. I don't know here. Let's
do this and we'll see how this goes.
I'll just do this. Okay.
Can we see this? Is it reasonably
accessible to you? Sorry.
>> Yeah, that's good.
>> I'm going to put this down. So, get out
of Get out of the way. Um, okay. So,
this is this is what we've got. And I
should add that
this number here I fixed. This is my
copy. I think um Oh, no. Is it? Yes, I
think I did fix this. I had there's a
couple tabs. This is prelim budget
summary, which is the tab when you open
it first. This is what comes up. But
it's fed by this. The first tab, which
is prelim budget. This is the detail.
Okay. Um let me go up to the beginning
of this one.
starts with revenue.
Um, mostly of course that's our taxes.
Uh, the only thing that I don't think
we've usually done with revenue and I
want to ask the treasur about at some
point is where we account for or if we
account for something like Town Aid
Road. But in the revenue, typically what
we've got is our our tax money and then
there's revenue I think another revenue
line later that gets us our that puts in
the ECS money which is a big chunk of
money over $2 million for education cost
share um that we use for our educ you
know to throw at our education costs. Um
sorry I'm scrolling too fast. Let me go
back up. Intergovernmental revenues is
probably where that is. Yes, ECS funds.
As you can see,
there's our $2 million there. Uh, most
of these other ones are pretty small.
As you can see, I think these these all
look like they're either flat.
I don't know if these are even
projections or if these are just they
haven't been changed. Uh, and they're
and that's exactly what we're going to
get. The one that I'm not as familiar
with is this one 23 MRSA revenue
sharing.
So at some point in this process I may
ask about that. Uh that seems to account
for
>> maybe the whole jump in revenue almost.
>> So
>> yeah, I wonder what that is.
>> Uh yeah, we may we may want to come back
to if anybody can chime in with if they
know what that is. Um otherwise maybe
for another meeting if you could.
>> That is a definitive. We did get a
notice from that and alls it says is
supplemental revenue sharing
>> and MRSA can I'm sorry. Can you remind
me what the acronym is?
>> Um,
>> because I don't know.
>> Municipal. I don't know, Jeff, if you
know that. Municipal Regional.
I don't I'm not even sure.
>> All right.
>> Let's investigate.
>> What? Jim,
>> municipal revenue sharing account is a
program
>> that provides funding to municipalities
based on their property tax revenue.
Oh, is that like a Is that when they
made the change to the car taxes?
>> Yeah, apparently. Yeah,
>> that's what it was. They remember they
capped the mill rates on car taxes and
then there was push back from a lot of
towns about that and I think this was
the solution.
>> That might make sense.
>> So, that is the amount that they've said
for 27. So,
the governor's proposed
>> 27 budget. Yep.
>> Should it pass? Yeah,
>> which is always the tricky bit. Some of
these numbers, guys, and this is
something our newer members may or may
not be aware of, but there it is often
the case that we finalize our budget. It
is almost always the case that we
finalize our budget before the
Connecticut State Legislature and the
governor have sorted their stuff out.
And so there is always a certain amount
of uncertainty.
Sound like Dick Cheney, known unknowns.
Uh, you know, where
you think you know, but you don't know
for absolutely certain. And sometimes we
just have to bite the bullet and take
take a chance and we should be
conservative with those kinds of
numbers.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. I know I just noticed um the ECS
funds.
>> Yep.
>> I don't think that's correct. 2526. I
don't think that's correct. 501,000.
>> This is This one's This is revenue
versus expenditure
>> so far.
>> Yeah, that's what that's in progress.
>> That's this year. That's this year.
Never mind. actually this is last year's
actual sorry
>> I'm going backwards I'm like okay I'm
looking at previous
>> yeah honestly this column is confusing
it's um it keeps it keeps confusing me
and I go back to the heading and I'm
like right okay I get it but it it keeps
doing the same thing to my brain uh Liz
>> okay
>> it gives you elements maybe we should
move it I don't know
>> but now that we know I'm fine yeah
>> and and as we discussed I guess this
number is flat we're not you know that's
that's pretty much what we're going to
get. Um,
but you know, okay, good. We get a
little bit of money there. That's nice.
Uh, let's see. This is all I don't know
if this is accurate, if this is just
building out from last year and and just
assuming that
because we don't have a difference of
projection, but these are all exactly
the same.
>> Yep. It's just from last year,
>> right? So, I don't know if these numbers
are really the numbers. So, we'll maybe
move on interest. Jeff talked about this
this, you know, look, if the interest
rate in this stiff account drops, maybe
we don't get that. If we get more money
into the account to compensate for that,
maybe we can get back to that number.
Um, are we on track? Sorry, I, you know,
because the fiscal year, it always
breaks my brain a little bit. The 86,814
that we have, this is through the end of
January, right?
If we extrapolate outwards, are we going
to make it to our 150 that we were
expecting for last year's budget?
>> Where are you?
>> I am in investment interest.
>> Okay.
>> And you've got, you know, there's the
7125 to 13126 number in there at 86,814.
>> Now, that's
>> that's not
>> six months, right?
>> Seven.
>> Seven. seven seven so
and of course if the interest rates
changing I don't know that I could we
can't just extrapolate straight from
that so maybe I'm asking a difficult
question but
>> you know are we going to make it to 150
>> you're you're going to be close and the
issue is going to be how much money we
have to move back and forth like right
now we can't move any money because
we can't move any money back and forth
we're going to get there and it's that
is really going to be the key. So, the
interest rate is declining slightly and
it's all about how much money we keep
there.
>> So, um
>> now what do you mean by moving back and
forth?
>> We have multiple bank accounts and for
years we've been trying to consolidate
down and get as much we can into our
stiff account. And the the thing that's
confusing and and and again for for Nick
and Heather's benefit, there's a
difference between the word account and
the word account and the word fund,
right? You could have an account with
tons of money in it, but that account
that that account has months that we're
tracking for eight different funds,
right, that we use in town. And
in the past, in the distant past anyway,
we had a bad habit of every fund we had
had its own darn bank account and it was
all these little checking accounts and
it was not the way to do it. We've done
I think we've made a lot of progress on
that, but I don't think we're done. But
Lisa can speak to that as she gets more
and more into this. I think right now I
don't know if you're in position to
>> Yeah, I will tell you um Am I muted? No,
I will.
>> No, you're not.
>> Okay, I will tell you that um there are
still entries to be made, but because I
have not received a report, um I cannot
do it. I've reconciled the banks through
December. I'm still missing something
from a department. Um, and then this
will be updated. So, this is not this is
only updated till partially December
31st. So, you may, like Jeff said, you
may still get there and I'll know better
once I get that report.
>> Okay.
>> Rob, can you can you scroll up just a
little bit?
>> Sure. How far up you want me to go?
>> Um, the ECS funds.
>> Yeah. Here. So, if that's if that's
501,000 for 7 months, how does that get
to
>> Yeah. to
>> I don't know that it come I don't know
that it comes in. It might be a little
irregular and we may we may have gotten
something that hasn't come through yet
based on what Lisa just said. I don't
know. Lisa, do you have a thought on
that?
>> Um, let me look at that and see what's
in that figure. But I
>> I can't remember how many installments
we typically get, but that number
suggests four.
>> Is four, right? So,
>> and so we should be at two,
>> right? And at this point when this was
January 31st, if that wasn't because let
me look right now and I'm looking
>> 231.
>> I strongly suspect that the date we've
got
>> when this was Yeah. When this was done
um yours was done, there's now been
another 501,000.
So, right now 1.02, right? Okay. 02.
Yep. Right.
>> Thank you.
>> Yep.
Good catch. Uh I thought it was
something like that and I guess I just
moved on.
So anyway, all right. Anyway, that so
that obviously look this is by far and
away our our big number. Um these
numbers we'll have to tighten up to see
if we think these all need to be left
here based on past experience. But as an
example,
>> like look at that,
right?
versus what was budgeted.
We're we're already we're in seven
months in. So, I'm not quite sure what's
going on with clerk fees, but
>> okay, remember we just talked about
that.
>> We did. We did. Sorry.
>> So, we're looking into that because we
agree there. It does look a little off.
So,
>> that looks wonky. So, we'll figure it
out.
>> Yeah.
>> And then at the same token, trans the
next line, transportation transfer
station is the other way. So, maybe
there's something going on there, right?
That would be that would be logical,
>> right?
See what that column does for you, Rob.
>> It makes you stop and think. That's what
that
>> the moment I complain about it. There it
is. There it is. I got it. Okay. Fair
enough. Fair enough. I'll take I'll take
>> It just kind of brings you to reality to
this situation you're
>> No, no, no, it's a very good column. I
think it was just where it's placed that
>> Yeah.
>> Just screwed up my brain. Um
um
so right okay so then we get down to
that's our total revenue projection and
again there's some numbers in there that
are not necessary so don't take this
here as gospel this increase
>> but we're projecting you know it's it's
not a huge amount of money either way
but we're looking at 12.8 in revenue
basically and then from here on out
we're into expenditures right the
obvious two big ones the schools
um this is as I mentioned this is the
corrected you can see I copied and
pasted it I had it from an email with it
underlined so you can tell me that's me
monkeying around but that is the right
number I promise
um so that's the change for our levy to
RAM 2.9 is the you know unless the RAM
board event makes another change which I
I don't know that it would happen.
That's where we are at with RAM provided
it were to pass referendum and that
accounts by the way their ops and their
capital budgets which are voted on
separately. So there's always that
possibility to
um to keep in mind
uh AES which we've extensively discussed
that's the that's the ask we'll be
talking to them next week. uh this is
just the calculation uh which we know
and then this aggregates them as you can
see
and then the rest from here on out until
we get to the bottom where this gets
added back in this is now line by line
every town department
um
and I you know this one the for me the
one that's obvious here is for you you
know this this here we talked about this
in the last meeting um assistant and
project manager or one assistant or
whatever. It's been talked about for
years. Uh when Eric was here, for sure,
there was, you know, repeated discussion
of help with project
management for for things like writing
uh grant applications and whatnot. I
remember that was one of his things that
he felt like he couldn't get to enough.
So, Borisman will take that up and we'll
wait to hear more. Um, this here, I
don't know if this is uh this salary
line item for the town administrator
themselves is a this is just a
placeholder number, a guesstimate, not
something that's been seriously
discussed. Is that true, Jeff? Because
we're hiring somebody new. I don't know.
>> Um, that salary is going to be a
question mark. It could go higher, it
could go lower. Um,
that's something the board of selectmen,
we haven't talked about it. I talked
about that with Lisa today as to what
that should be. But until the board of
selectman meets and until they hire
someone um
>> Yep.
>> understand.
>> I just want to characterize it for
people on the board. Would it be fair to
say that we see in this in this percent
change for personnel stuff if we see 3%
3% 3% 3% these are kind of TBDs?
>> You have certain numbers there.
>> Some of them are contractual, right?
Some of them are contractual, but
they're not. They're We have tried to do
a pretty good job at the town as to the
the union contracts of only being 3%.
But each one of those lines needs to be
adjusted. That's why we are working on
the fullblown uh payroll summary uh
similar to what you had in your document
last year with all of the line ite all
the the departments and you know are
they salary are they hourly what's the
increase contractually what's the
increase that the town wants to offer uh
non-UN employees and we'll have that all
built and
drop into what you're looking at right
here.
Okay.
Um,
so this is a small line item, but I the
thing that jumps out at me is is our
friend this this column again. So we
have this apparently a grant a line
supported by $5,500 grant for historical
document uh restoration
and we had a budget. Oh, I see. We had a
budget of zero. Hence, we spent zero.
Sorry, this budget
increase. So this this number isn't a 0%
increase. It's infinite. We're
increasing from 0 to 6,500 here. Okay.
So this would be in addition to the
grant. So you'd have this would put
together would get you to 12,000. Is
that am I is that netted out or is this
with the grant and we are only putting
in a thousand?
>> Where are you at? What are you down?
>> Sorry. Sorry. We are under town clerk.
The last line of town clerk historical
document restoration. If you if you if
you look at that, that's uh um
it's a and we got to make sure that we
have the grant because what I would do
is go back up to the top and go, is
there that grant even listed there? But
in my head, Rob, what that is is if
they're getting a grant, they're sitting
there saying that that the historical uh
document um work is being done in the
clerk. In the past, I know and if Carol
was on, she'd she'd be much more apt to
explain, but they did um a lot of
scanning of documents so that they could
sit there and keep some of the documents
that they had previously, old documents
uh on uh digital and uh
we need to look at that. So, I wouldn't
focus that if that's supported by a
grant, then
>> the grant might the grant might require
that we actually do something with it.
>> It does not. Can I I'm sorry. Can I just
>> Please do Carol. Jump in.
>> There's I questioned that last year
because it was always $1,000. So, that
$5,500 grant should not be in there. It
should be listed and reported the
following year if the grant is actually
applied for because one year they did
not the state when there was
they needed more money. They did away
with that grant. So it should not be
realist listed there because the people
are being taxed on $5,500.
it it should go back to $1,000 and then
if the grant is applied for
received should be reported
the year that it is received because it
depends too on the time of year that you
apply for it. If you apply in the
spring, you will not get that money
until the following fiscal year. So
there's there's two application periods,
fall and spring.
And if you apply for it, you will get it
as long as it the funds are there.
But it should not be listed. That should
go back to the $1,000 because the town
always funded $1,000
for that because if we get a $5,500
grant and our project is $6,000, we had
that money in there to make up the
difference.
Okay, because now looking at this again,
as I had myself all turned around, it
looks like we budgeted 6,500 last year
and haven't spent a dime. At least
according to this,
>> they
>> so something's off there.
>> They did do that. They did do that, but
um because the what was spent was just a
$5,500 grant. So,
>> okay, we'll have to figure that we're
gonna have to figure that one out. We'll
put a little.
>> Yeah, nothing has been spent this year.
>> Okay.
Um,
okay. Um, right. So now, sorry, moving
on. Obviously,
this is again a lot of salary stuff that
we don't really know necessarily. This
is I imagine this is one of those it is
what it is issues. uh you got to
maintain your software and the contract
is I assume this is the best we can do
and so we're being asked to increase
this a little bit. It's not it's not a
ton of money. It's a by percentage it's
high
for the tax collector's office.
The assessor
again it's again these are software
maintenance and salary. That's pretty
much the the whole shebang
the software contracts do seem to jump
up, huh?
Um,
registars, I think we talked a little
bit about this in the
um
wanting a little bit more in here, but
again, ultimately a modest relatively
modest increase. I don't know. Again,
some of these numbers are just flat 3%.
I don't know if those are contractual or
not. I think these would be non
mileage big jump off supply. I mean
again big jump but in in the context of
it being $100
and remember in you know for elections
you know obviously we've expanded things
with elections and based on expanding
you know early voting and everything
like that.
>> What's the mileage for for uh the
registars? Is that for training, driving
to training and whatnot? Anybody know?
>> Yes, it is for driving for training.
It's in the document that they've
provided to tell us why they're asking
for a little bit more money.
>> Okay. I I don't know if I saw that
>> that document. Yeah, there was
>> it was sent tonight in those
attachments.
>> Yeah, this is it's um
>> department info sheets. This one here,
department info sheets. Oh,
>> and in here there's a registar's
document.
>> Okay.
>> Um,
>> I have not had a chance
>> I haven't I didn't have a chance to look
at it, but this is the explanation.
>> It's a onepage document.
>> Conferences increase by 100
>> mileage increase to further differences
to conference. Yep,
>> there it is.
So, I think this did go out to our full
board. So, you guys should all have it.
It's just I think it was easy for me to
bring up quickly.
>> Yep.
>> Let me know when you're good, Liz, and
I'll back.
>> Yeah. Thanks. Yeah. Thank you.
Uh, oops. There. Back to here. Okay.
So, that's elections. Um, builder
department.
This is a
not a huge one.
Yeah. This is all basically salary
stuff. Yep.
Yep.
tenant office building. So this is you
know again this is going to be salary
and maybe some supply and contract
stuff. Oh this is literally this isn't
the this is none of this is this the
salary. Sorry. This is all services
stuff. Okay. This is actually a decrease
right now. Hopefully that's real.
>> The main thing as you may note is this
right here. We did upgrade some things
in the town hall. So
>> yes. Yeah. And I don't know if that's
why, but um um
>> we did a heat pump system, hybrid heat
pump system. I'm
>> guess I did a forecast. Yeah. And again,
I looked at what we spent so far this
year in that column and I said, "Well,
this isn't going to even we don't even
need what's in the budget." So, I
forecasted the number of months left.
>> Yeah. If you look at that Yeah. You
know, again, that the modern heat pumps
have gotten more and more impressive. Um
I say this as somebody who just spent a
ton of money putting them into my own
house, so I hope that's true, but it
does seem to be true. and huzzah. Also,
if memory serves, it's a hybrid system.
So, when it was really cold that week, I
mean, maybe you guys actually switched
over to propane. I know it has that
capability.
Um, but that's pro that would be that's
makes total sense that number should
drop. That's exactly what we want to
see.
Um,
advertising
looks like we're just staying flat.
Looks like we're spending well actually
I don't know if this is a seasonally
really seasonal thing because of
budget votes or or election time and
otherwise we don't really do much of it
but we're almost expended there.
>> Yep.
>> So
>> uh insurance I assume this is um this is
not this is not health this is all the
other insurance. This is Kerma. This is
like property casualty.
>> I don't know if we're comps under here.
That kind of stuff.
>> Yep. Yep. And we haven't heard from them
yet, so I don't have an update on that.
>> I would say since I work in the
insurance industry, this number is
almost certainly going to rise. How much
it will rise
is your guess. I doubt it's as bad as
what the schools are seeing and what the
town's dealing with at the 15% with the
health insurance consortium, but it's I
also sincerely doubt it's going to come
in flat. So, let's mentally put an
asterisk on that one right there.
And this is benefits. And this is where
you're going to get.
Um, wow, that's a
it's a nice jump. Uh,
>> yeah. I wonder why.
>> We're still working on that. That's Jeff
and I are still working on that. We
talked about it being a little high. So
maybe it won't be that much. But it all
depends that is all dependent upon what
you end up with a pay for a payroll.
>> Right. Exactly. Because it's it
everything you do to salary then
propagates down to benefits. And so
>> because it's all keying off that salary
number. So and then this one we all know
about. This is the one we've talked
about for months now.
>> Um that's hitting everybody.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um this is the retirement. Doesn't look
bad. Hopefully that's a good number.
>> Don't
>> Don't believe any of them.
>> Yep. Okay. So, so this is the this is a
we're walking you through here, but
yeah, take this all with a grain of
salt, folks. Sorry. Uh but maybe there's
some value in just seeing this seeing it
and going through it a little bit.
>> I mean, center this one in particular
has to be discussed by boardman. Sorry,
Jeff. Go ahead. It's like the health
insurance. Some of the I I think we're
going to be low from the town
perspective on health insurance this
year. Um basically because of who left
and who was taking insurance and you
know so that that summary will be will
be prepared. But take all of this with a
grain of salt until we can get all of
the payroll information put together.
>> Absolutely. Um, and now if I'm correct,
uh, you know, the staffing levels at the
community center and whatnot, that's
another thing that is pending discussion
and decision. Yep. Okay. We'll leave
that at that then. There's nothing much
to say about that because it's not
really real yet. Um,
janitorial supplies, I guess.
Whoa.
I mean, this is this is a nitpick, of
course, but that's what we do here.
You know, it looks like we haven't
really spent much.
>> The kitchen
is not operational. We need
>> we need to put in the hood and the
venting system and everything.
>> There you go. Yep.
>> Okay.
Okay. Fair.
Uh town garage.
Not a lot going on there. Actually, it's
a drop. Hopefully, that's true. fuel,
oil, electricity. Love to see it.
Excited to be a part of it. Let's do it.
>> Rob, for a second,
>> could I just go back to the advertising?
There's two $300 entries for job
postings that are in the advertising
totaling $600. So, that's probably
>> ah, we are in fact posting for lots of
positions, aren't we?
>> Yeah. Probably that's probably why.
>> Yeah, that is.
>> And a lot of your activity was back in
November. So,
>> right. Well, maybe. So, something to
think that, you know, not that this is a
pig light item, but, you know, we may
end up over there. Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
Uh, where were we? We were town garage.
>> Uh,
what was I? Sorry. Uh, oh, yeah, we
talked about general. Okay. Town garage.
I don't see a ton here. You had talked
about this one already, so not much to
say. You already brought it up.
Um, thanks again. Like I said, this is
great.
>> Yeah, that's awesome.
>> Yep.
Be nice when this is finally done. But,
you know, there's not again not not a
lot going on there. Um,
>> no, sorry. This is the one I'm thinking
of, isn't it?
>> This is the one I'm thinking of. The old
firehouse.
So, we we're dropping this. That's good.
Again, it's just electricity for like an
alarm system, right? Maybe some
lighting. I forget.
Anyway,
let's see.
>> Auditor. Uh, here's one where I would
think to myself,
are we going to get that flat? Probably
not.
>> I don't know. We don't do multi-year
contracts with them, do we? The auditor?
>> I've done them in the past. I don't know
yet. I haven't dug in. And I don't know
if Jeff knows
>> I remember, you know, this has been
going up. It's not I mean it's not going
up as you can see. It's not going up at
like this dramatic rate, but it has gone
up each year. So this is last year's
number. It may this may you may have to
consider that number to be low.
>> It's possible. I did it. I've done a
five-year contract before, but I don't,
you know, I don't know.
>> We've had we've we've had trouble
getting our auditors, so I don't know.
So, I I think we're year to year with
them. That's my guess, but we should
look into it. Um,
Dennis's retainer.
That's in
Oh, and and that needs to go up.
I don't I don't think that's all Dennis.
I tell you, Dennis's retainer needs to
go up. So, uh, we'll we'll put in for
that one.
So, we have other attorneys we have on
retainer.
>> Well, that stuff like I I'm not sure
who's all included in that. Like, if you
could look, Lisa, in that line item for
legal retainer just to say who's in it.
>> Um,
>> yeah, let me look. Let's
pull it back up.
Retainer.
um attorney Dennis O'Brien, Kanan
Escalera, and male. And those are the
only two that are in there.
>> And
>> I don't know that other one.
>> So the other one was um
that was related to employment issues.
>> Okay.
>> Right.
>> Um
so Lisa, that's one that we need to look
at.
>> Okay. the appropriate line item that
it's going in.
>> Okay.
>> Right. Even if we need to create a new
line item because there's
a retainer which is a flat number and
then legal services
and we probably should create additional
accounts.
This is looks like a guest. We bounced
around a bit and we don't seem to have
spent anything on it this year for the
town engineer.
Uh but in the past, as you can see,
we've spent more than 10,000, but we put
we looks like we budgeted 10,000 and
haven't spent anything.
>> Yeah,
>> that's right.
>> Yeah, I'm just double checking into
February. Yeah. No, we haven't spent
anything yet this year.
>> Okay.
>> And you have to remember that Eric was
leaving and the projects we had going on
were the bridge. So, I'm sure that Eric
had some
some projects that he was expecting to
use.
>> Probably more from a standpoint of
surveying work, you know,
that type of work.
Um,
we've got a decrease here.
>> That's That's only right.
>> That's only one of the three groups. So,
we've only received, I believe, the Crag
bill that you have,
>> right?
>> We haven't received the bill or the
expected cost for CCM or cost,
>> right? because they're all see the line
the descriptive line there and it says
capital C O CG CCM and cost and it's
only one that I've
>> right so one out of the three yeah I'm
guessing yeah okay yep
>> um I know
something came up about the animal
control in town
>> uh what where do we land on that because
I know
>> they the the description we got I think
in the last meeting was that um
originally we were going to just be cut
loose, right? Deal with it yourselves.
>> And there was push back and now the the
difference well we'll keep you on but
we're jacking the cost way up.
>> It's it's lower on the report.
>> Yep.
So we'll get to that
>> on Oh it's still to come. We haven't
gotten there.
>> Oh, it's lower on this this budget.
>> Yeah. Okay. Okay. Gotcha.
>> You know what? I don't want to lose
place. Let's
>> public works.
>> Yeah, we'll get to it. It's there. But
yeah, the the narrative answer is that
>> they increased their their billing to
us. You know, they're saying we're just
going to charge you a lot more.
>> Great.
>> Yeah. Well, the other option was even
worse, I think. So,
>> I know I know. Build a facility, hire
people.
>> Let's not take these necessarily as uh
set in stone or anything. Uh, we need to
get updated info.
Um, this one I guess is real because
it's per contract.
>> Snow removal OT. So, this one is, as we
just discussed, this is going up because
this isn't through like we're already
here, right? And we just had another
snowstorm and so we're going to be well
over there. So, we have to decide
whether
we
increase this budget or we say, "Okay,
we had a bad year, but we're through
it." And
>> you know, we've had years where, look at
this. Right.
>> Right. Yeah. It's right now it's over by
$17,000,
the end of February. That that date
there, January. Yeah. But I mean, I
don't know how many no more storms
you're going to get. This is this is
throw a dart at a board stuff in terms
of budgeting because it's all dependent
on
>> the weather and you could have a freak
storm and
>> all of a sudden you're behind. Uh so
we'll just have to
>> we'll just have to throw our dart at the
board and decide, you know, do we want
to make this 25? Do we want to make it
30? And uh roll the dice. We we'll see.
Uh but we'll see. We'll get more updated
figures on this. So, we have, you know,
one thing you could do whether it's
really advisory advisable to do is you
you could take the three year once we
have this number, you know, up, you
could do a three-year rolling average
kind of thing and and use that as your
guesstimate.
>> I think it's interesting if you look at
the sand.
>> Yeah, we don't always buy it. We don't
always We weren't using a ton of sand uh
for a while.
>> Sand. I'm sorry. Yeah, I meant salt. Oh
yeah,
>> we've only spent 17,000
>> because that women delivering,
>> right?
>> Right. Wait, do we not pay till
delivery? Is that it?
>> I mean, there was a delivery in January
of 17,000 and then your delivery in
February was only 3,000.
>> So, they're only giving you a minimum.
>> It was
>> the delivery in February was also
17,000.
>> So,
>> I don't I there's one in January. I
don't see one, Jeeoff. if there's one.
It's just it's not entered into the
system yet.
>> Um we discussed it this afternoon. It
was an issue on the input. So
>> Okay. Okay.
>> So what what you're seeing is Salt is
going to pick up because he's going to
he's going to attempt to fill his shed
to get ahead of next year.
I might sit there and work with him a
little bit, but he does have orders on
on ready to go. And the other thing is
you're gonna see an increase in sand
because he mixed the sand and the salt.
So you'll see a lot of sand around on
the roads which you haven't seen in past
years.
>> And that was just to try to extend our
salt stock.
>> Yep.
>> I think that's a wonderful idea. Um I
I'm sure there's some ying and yang to
it. I know obviously nothing about it,
but I looked at the cost of sand
compared to salt and
>> it's awful messy. Yeah. Yeah, I get.
Well, they're going to come and sweep
anyway at the end of the season, right?
Regardless.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I I get it.
Obviously, we'll have some spring stuff
feeding into this, but it looks like we
might be coming under here.
um
for mowing.
Beautification.
Apparently, we've spent almost nothing.
Um but in the past, we've spent it's
bounced around.
>> You got to watch beautifification is
going to go up because they're going to
put the other sign in
>> the sign. Yep.
>> All right. And your mowing contracts are
going to kick in in the spring.
>> Mhm. So those are for the the field down
along hill and um
>> yep
>> some of the side roads the side issues
that were being mowed the small spaces.
So anyway you have that and uh you have
the sign that's going to go in. So those
I imagine will get closer to the budget.
>> So those might be these might be
reasonable.
>> You got mulch coming too. Yeah,
probably. I mean there was a couple
times of mulch last year. I don't know
if you'll do it this year but that's in
there too,
>> right? More electricity savings. Huzzah.
>> Wait, another question about the
beautifification, Jeff. Yes. Just
quickly, I know
>> last year when that sign went in or the
year before, whenever it was, there was
discussion about the way it was
oriented.
>> Mhm. And I know that I remembered them
saying, "Oh, yeah, they'll fix it."
Because it's it's facing the road and it
should be it should be like
perpendicular so that when you're
driving by you see the sign. And I just
wondered if you had heard anything more
about that if I mean, is it a done deal?
>> It's not not two-sided.
>> Oh, it's not. Oh, I thought they were
gonna make it two-sided. I thought they
were gonna come in and do the other
side. No,
>> no, they were going to do a an angle,
but what they've decided to do and
what's been decided to do is put another
sign down the other end of the of Route
Six. So,
>> like an in and out.
>> So, well, actually, they're going to
both be ins to be really honest. Just
coming into the center of town. What we
should do is spend some money on that
concrete wall and do a mural. So, we got
to find a grant related to um an
artistic mural to put on that concrete
wall. and then maybe sit there and put
in a nice, you know, wall seating area
so people can go up and uh hang out on
the trail.
>> That would be nice.
>> We'll figure it all out, but it's got to
be done with grant money because that's
how most of the stuff is got done.
>> So,
>> yeah. Okay. I was just curious. I
>> was remembering things.
>> When you have the library come in, ask
ask Kathy D. Roger should because her
and Elaine Bukard have been spearheading
that time.
>> Oh, I should talk to I should talk to
Bill and Kathy about when we have her
can get her in.
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Well, we need Bill back. Get get
his butt back from vacation. Get him on
there.
>> Yeah. You know,
>> she's usually in the background. We can
just go. Hey. All right. So, looking at
the transport station here. Um, it sure
looks like we're headed for an overage.
No, no, no. I'm sorry. No, that's my own
eyes betraying me. No, we're doing fine.
117, not 171. Scared myself there.
My bad. Sorry, everybody. Um,
electricity again. You know, this is our
this is our bright spot.
>> It's buggy. We keep seeing it.
Tremendous.
um
all of this
we obviously these are last year's
numbers and looking at past years it's
they've actually gone up so I would
assume that these are preliminary
placeholders and that these are not
necessarily real
um if you look at so here we went we
were at 2500 then we're at 2800 then
we're at 3600 although
The actual expenditure isn't that bad.
>> Yeah.
>> In fact, we've got zero for has waste.
Maybe these maybe these numbers Oops.
Let's not do that. Maybe these numbers
are going to be okay. We'll see.
>> But something to look at, I guess. Um,
yeah, let's let's let's come back to
that, I guess. So this is uh the
trooper. This is like we talked about
this before. We're kind of at the mercy
of the the state troopers here. We we
don't get to pick our trooper. Uh right
>> and we pay what they tell us to pay
basically.
>> So um and it depends on seniority of the
trooper if memory serves. And
>> you know sometimes we get lucky and
sometimes we don't
>> right and we can't say we want a newbie.
Nope. you get
>> no the union I think they get to put in
for it and it's based on you know who
wants it uh seniority wise
>> Rob if you want to go back to that
recycling
>> yes this year
>> last year's bill was in May
>> ah
>> so that's probably why
>> yeah thank you
that will do it so yeah maybe this is
probably okay but at the same time since
we've seen rises in the past we might
want to think of these is potentially
low.
All right. So, trooper fire mission. Um,
well, this is just
um
>> Well, we got to talk to W.
>> They'll give us that number, right?
>> Yeah. Well, is coming in on the 4th, so
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, that is his number for this year.
That's the number he said.
>> Yep. 169. Yep.
>> I mean, obviously remember that that
department the the the real meat of of
their spending is often not this number,
but rather capital.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. This is I mean volunteer fire
department.
There's not a lot here.
These numbers are exactly last year's
numbers. I don't know if that's right.
>> Well, that's what he submitted. He just
wants to fill that position. So,
>> okay.
>> Yep.
>> As long as that's up to date,
it's fine.
Um,
yeah, these are these are no changes.
>> I have a question.
>> Yeah. for the fire marshall. Can we Is
it possible to do shared services with
another town for that
instead of having one person?
>> I thought we were getting a really kind
of good deal already with him.
>> Jeff,
>> we'll look into it. We'll we'll look
into it, Louise. But if memory serves me
is that we
um we tried to sit there and do
something like that and it was difficult
to sit there and try to fill that spot
and you know the fire department has
done a pretty good job of working with
us to fill that that spot. So
>> okay
>> so here we finally get to animal
control. Um I I don't see an increase
here. I thought we talked about how it
was going to be going way up.
>> Let me look at the
>> That doesn't look bad at all.
>> No, it's it's this can't be right
because we just got told that
>> Yeah,
>> we're not getting our old number.
>> Yep. This was um We've gotten this since
Did I not put that in? Hold on.
Look at the email.
Yeah. Now they're saying 19,602.
>> Oh,
>> you know,
>> all in all,
>> sorry.
>> All right. 19,602.
>> Yep. Yeah. I mean, it's a big jump, but
you know what?
>> I mean, we can't do it ourselves. This
is the reality.
>> Do it ourselves. It's a bargain.
>> It's frustrating that, you know, but
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And if we can look into we can think
about it as a as a long-term
>> Yeah.
>> What can we do? But
>> we couldn't hire someone for that.
>> We'd have to build a facility.
>> Yeah.
>> Correct. And it has requirements like
code requirements that
>> weing
building a completely new facility, I
think.
>> So this is like a dog warden and
everything. Okay.
>> Animal. Well, yeah, that essentially.
Yes. I'm sure they do more than dogs,
but yeah,
>> like foxes and stuff that come,
>> but I expect it's mainly dogs probably.
Yeah.
>> And we we use it so intermittently
is the thing.
>> So, it seems like a lot for that, but
really, if you think about what it would
cost us to hire an individual
>> with all the salary and all everything
that comes along with it and putting in
a facility, I mean, we'd have to build
it because we don't have one. What we
used to have down down there, I saw it.
Yeah, you can't you can't put an animal
in there,
>> right?
>> So, do they handle deer? You know, when
deer gets hit on the side of the road.
>> I don't know
>> because that happens quite often.
>> That's a good question. In upstate New
York, you took it home and had lunch.
>> Yes.
>> Yep. You know, when I hit a deer, I
called my friend and said, "Hey, you
want it?
>> I'll be right there.
Yeah. So, it all depends if you know
people.
>> Um, but yeah, I don't know if they
handle that.
>> Yeah.
>> What am I doing? Come here.
So,
we have a couple of jumps projected
here.
Increase in fitness programs and others.
Is this this is like more community
center usage basically? Think
>> I think they want to add more programs
>> and so programs cost money.
>> Yep. No, I get that. Um
>> y
>> Okay.
So there's your jump
>> most of it anyway. Some of there's a few
other things in here, but that's that's
that's the meat of it.
>> Senior transport.
uh
just
everything but the salary right now is
just using last year's numbers. It
doesn't look like in fact it looks like
we're doing rather well um overall here.
Mhm.
>> And I forget what this is, but it's 250
bucks and I'm not sure it's that
important. Um, which obviously we're
playing paying into something there.
>> Amplify mental health. That sounds
familiar
>> cuz like I'm familiar with us having,
you know, we're in the Eastern Highlands
Health District. I don't know if this is
associated with that because a mental
health I mean that's partly what AHM
does like so this is obviously something
different.
>> Yeah, that's so specific. $250.
>> Yes. I'm not quite sure what it is.
>> Yeah. Can we look and see if
>> it's not much money. We haven't spent
it. Um and it's not
>> so I don't know.
>> I don't remember that at all. I don't
remember.
>> Let me go back. I can go back to 2324
and there's an amount that was $440
spent.
>> So, let me just go back.
>> Okay.
I'm not quite sure what this one is
either.
See,
>> amplify. It just says amplify.
>> So, I'm not sure. It must have been a
program or something. Amplify mental
health in Glastonbury. Oakwood Drive in
Glastonbury.
>> Amplifying school mental health
literacy.
>> That's what it went. That's what the
$440 in 2324 was made out to. There were
two $220 checks in 23, August and
November of 23.
>> It sounds like a training and we'll have
to dig into it.
>> Yeah, I'm not sure.
>> Yep.
>> Um, and then do we know what access is?
>> Looks like we spent it.
>> Last year's exactly bang on a thousand
bucks.
Join us and learn more social services.
>> I believe access is the fuel assistance
in Willilamanic and I believe that's
what we contribute towards that.
>> Yeah, we're in a we're in a group there.
Yeah,
>> I know.
>> Yeah, it's in Willamantics. That's all I
have is that's the name of the group in
Willamantic. I have to look it up.
>> Okay. They provide home heating oil
assistance and
>> there you go.
>> Bunch of stuff. So, but Lisa, didn't
they give us a letter? That's more that
was more of a
requesting that
>> what this year.
>> Yeah.
>> Um I don't have anything for them. I
just probably put it in there because
that's what we had last year.
>> But So, do they usually request Jim? I I
don't know if they request annually.
>> All right. I'd have to look at last
year. Last year
>> ah we already talked about
>> call to ask.
>> Okay.
The call to ask. Okay. Thank you.
Um so yeah this is so this whole section
I mean a lot the the most of what you
see here this is the senior program
stuff and um and then bits and bobs
elsewhere
>> let's see
>> so then we have the library
>> sorry
I I had a qu the senior program is this
like um I was just wondering if someone
could kind of explain to me like really
high level what the senior program is
>> various activities for the seniors. Um
>> I don't know if they do some do they do
some trips and I think it's separate
that there's senior lunch but I think
that's a separate line.
>> Um
>> but in this
>> go ahead
>> they have activities and people that
come in and provide activities at the
senior center.
um some of them are subsidized
by the town and some of the items the
seniors contribute a little bit to. So I
think that's what they all are
>> and and the benefits anyone who's a
senior in the community or is
>> that wants to use it? Yeah.
>> Anybody that wants to go I I go to
coffee and crafts on Friday
>> when they have it.
when it's not shut down by surprise. Um,
>> yeah,
>> got it. Okay. I was just
>> Yeah,
>> I was just genuinely curious as all.
Sorry.
>> Yeah, that's Yep. Um, they do bingo on
Wednesdays with the senior lunch.
Um,
they do all kinds of, you know, fun
little things.
I'll I'll get them to I'll get them to
send out the monthly brochure to the
members of the board of finance. I think
it would help. There's
>> Yeah,
>> I do believe they have it in PDF, so
it'd be easily accessible, but they also
have uh they also have a nice version
that they give out in paper for us old
dinosaurs that like paper.
>> I'm with you with the paper. That's why
I go down the town hall every
Yeah. Where where's the line item for
Liz's printing costs?
>> Hey, Nick.
>> I'm kidding.
>> No, it's true. It's true.
>> Yep.
>> Nick, it's Louise. Um the the t the um
it's also a community center. It's not
just senior center. So, there are things
for you know the younger folk as well.
>> So, you might want to check it out.
>> Now, do we use the same line item for
that?
like it's labeled as a senior programs.
If we have other programs, is that is
that back up in this in the community
center budget? I did I didn't see it. I
can go back up.
>> That's a good question.
>> That's a good question, Rob, because
there are, you know, like um family
bingo at night. It's not just for
seniors,
>> right?
>> In your program. Yeah.
>> Actually, Louise, I have a question for
you. Um yeah,
>> Sunday, um Lisa and I happened to be in
the town hall and there was an activity
going on at the community center.
>> What was that?
>> As I understand it, um I wasn't there.
That was Joe. Actually, it was the um
Pinewood Derby
>> for the Boy State Boy Scouts.
>> Scouts.
>> That's awesome.
>> Told you somebody had a tie on. Yeah,
>> we we were we were wondering what was
going on.
>> Yeah. Yeah, they do that every year.
>> Memories of badly losing a car race. Um
>> I would think I I'm wondering if some of
the stuff that's not for the seniors
since this line is labeled senior
citizens. Is some of that stuff labeled
in the recck department?
>> I don't know. I was wondering. That's
what I was wondering, too. Me, too.
>> Well, we're going to get rec recreation
commissions coming up. We'll see.
Uh, and I don't see a big change there.
Um, before we do that, this library,
like I just said, I I need to get in
touch with um
Kathy and ask her to come in, but you
know, they're asking for
some increases here.
>> Yeah, I I'm curious about
>> I'm curious about more specifics about
the library operations. Like, it's a
number, you know, and I'm like $28,000.
what what comes with oper you know
library operations knowing nothing about
library operations
>> I mean they
>> well they do programs there too I think
and they also have employees obviously
um great but yeah you payroll
>> that's facility that's facility
maintenance that's everything
>> utilities yeah
>> so there's payroll and then there's
>> just a big number
library operations is in I'm
I mean, they'll sit there and give you a
breakdown, but I'm just telling you,
it's it's the utilities, it's it's the
landscaping, it's everything else that
they pay to
>> furnace cleaning. Yep.
>> Okay. I I I never knew what it was.
>> Carpet carpet clean.
Yeah. Window clean, alarm service,
building repairs,
>> air conditioner cleaning.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, this is maybe a little out of
scope, but they have building repairs.
Where does their capital budget come
from? Like, if they have big repairs at
the library,
the library's actually done a very good
job of like they they we need to put
something on our next board of
selectmen. They want to do something and
they fundraised for it. Nick, their
their group is very uh active in trying
to not spend tax dollars and to sit
there and fund raise for things. So, um
if they have capital or budget
maintenance that's outside of the scope,
we'll take it out of the budget. There's
a budget maintenance line here or
building maintenance line and we'll
split that around a lot of the town uh
buildings that that we sit there and
we'll maintain. But um if they have
something big, they'll fund raise or
they'll come to us and they'll we'll
pull it out of a different building
fund.
>> They don't tend to have an annual
capital budget is the answer. Yeah. I
mean, I'm trying to remember the last
one we I was I remember being involved
in it all was we were talking about at
CIP. They had some windows they needed
to
>> point windows.
>> Yeah.
>> Because it's such an old building, they
>> Yeah. through the whole pointing
>> lead pointing whatever that that whole
issue is that it's required but that was
the last big thing they did and and
they've done a lot of a lot of
landscaping at that I mean Eric actually
the uh
connectivity grant that did the
sidewalks and the wall around the
library about two years ago. So um
but they're they're a very a very active
organization in town, the library
committee.
>> So, Friends of the Libraries, right?
>> Friends of the library.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. That's nice.
>> So, with the reccomission, there does
seem to be an increase here in programs.
There's not a lot of detail. It does say
something about additional concert.
So, I don't know. I actually don't know
that much about the rec commission. Um,
but that, you know, I it doesn't doesn't
seem to me like this line item is what
we were talking about earlier. I don't
know that it's in here.
Um, but this looks like a real number
with a budget request and an
explanation. So, this is this is their
numbers that have come in. I don't know
if that was in that packet. It was kind
of hard to tell because for some reason
they submitted
>> two budgets and I don't know if two
people one of them's got blue ink and
the other one's got black ink. So I took
the one that seemed most recent. Um did
I put in there I probably I might have
missed this one to put in for
yourformational pages. It's something
with the Andover community garden budget
request.
Okay.
>> So, and that's 3,785,
which is that community garden.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, that's a big increase. I could
get that to you. I didn't send that
right.
>> It's a $225 increase, 6.32%. And I don't
I don't think I have anything on it.
Carol's got her hand up. What's up,
Carol?
>> Okay. So, the community garden the
recreation commission is not in charge
of the community garden budget. It is
just put under the recreation
commission. There is a separate
committee that handles the community
garden budget. Okay.
>> The recreation commission, we just asked
for the extra money because we would
like to have an additional concert over
the summer or in the fall. And we also
asked for an additional $900
to cover half of the cost for the
community and senior center program
where people can register
online for their programs and things
like that because we're going to work
with the community center
for registering our different sports
programs and that.
>> Okay. Thank you for that.
So that's maybe why I got two of them
then. One from the garden center and
then one from the rec commission. Okay.
>> Right. Because Jeff makes sense.
>> Jeff would have submitted that for the
community garden.
>> Okay.
>> Lisa, can you read what um Jeff
submitted from the community garden? Did
he get any?
>> Yeah. Um for the 3,785,
>> right? Yeah.
>> That's in there. Yeah. $1,800 for an
irrigation system, $100 for a rotor
tiller rental, $75 for rye,
$750 for neem oil, $200 for plants for
the window boxes, 300 for seeds,
$250 for berry bushes,
um 150 for orbit digital irrigation
timers, and crush stone for 250.
We obviously didn't spend our budget
this year. Well, I mean, again, we're
not spring yet. So,
>> yeah, I was going to say it's not
springtime, so they probably haven't
yet.
>> Yep. That's That's seasonal.
>> We just got about $500 bill for seeds.
>> I I I guess I don't know. I'm going to
sound
very unpopular.
>> Well, listen, I don't necessarily think
you have to sound unpopular. I think
what we have to do is get Jeff in here
and ask what level of commitment there's
been from the rest of the community on
the community gardens.
>> I just
why can't the people in the community
that want that need gardening space and
want to use that space that's already
built and it's already beautiful,
why can't they bring their own seeds?
Like why is the town
and I know we're not talking a lot of
money here. I know we're not talking a
lot, but why is the town paying for
this?
Just just my opinion.
>> And also, Liz, I don't want to
interrupt, but I agree with you on the
seeds. A lot of times you can get those
seeds free, but they're like one year
old
>> seeds. And most of the people that are
doing stuff like that, they kind of
bring a lot of times they bring their
own their own plants in there. So I
don't know where all those $500 worth of
seeds goes.
>> This has to be something that is just
discussed in a global it's
>> it's not a
it's a small it's a it's a large amount
of money but small amount of money at
the same time. We just have to figure
out if there is enough community
involvement to justify spending people's
tax dollars on it.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Uh, I would be happy to have them
come in and talk to us. I just I don't
know
>> the guy who does it and I don't have
contact in Can you could somebody else,
you know, help me out with that and
reach out to him and see if we could
make maybe our 318 meeting?
>> I I I can do that. Jeff is a great guy.
He's done so much for that garden. He's
>> I I have a vague recollection of him
talking to us once before, but I Yeah,
if we could see if he's available on
like the 11th to the 18th.
>> Okay, I'll I'll check with him.
>> Okay.
>> Just to do like a little summary or can
explain,
>> you know, and those are and those are
dates, Liz, you'll be back, right? So,
>> yeah,
>> questions. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Let's see if we can hit one of those two
dates.
>> Okay. Thanks, Louise.
>> Okay.
>> Thank you.
This is an odd little line item.
>> Miscellaneous memorial.
>> Um I it it seems to be something that
bounces around.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> uh who runs that?
>> I don't know what it means.
>> Carol, do you know who runs that? Are
you talking about Memorial Day?
>> Memorial Day miscellaneous expenses.
Yeah. committee and um what we do those
are for flags the flags that you see
hanging on school road and 316 as those
flags need to be replaced this is the
fund that it comes from
>> so and we also use
it for um we have the wreath that we put
down on Veterans Monument Park so that's
what that is for and it also covers
cemetery flags We buy 144 cemetery flags
each year and they're placed on all of
the milit all of the veterans graves.
>> Okay. Well, so I could see how that
could bounce around because you may have
one year where your flags are kind of
wearing down and you need new new ones,
>> right?
>> Okay. Well, I don't problem with that.
As long you know, if that's the number
that's needed,
whatever. Um,
order selectman.
Um,
flat. Well, mostly flat board clerk. We
just we this is something I presumably
under discussion.
Hey, look at us. We have a clerk. We
need a clerk.
>> We do.
>> Are you not Are you not uh Rob, that's a
question because I've had this question.
Are you not getting your minutes
transcribed or or dealt with anymore?
>> Yeah, we are.
>> We are.
>> Okay. All right.
>> We were talking about there was one
transcription that Liz had looked at and
thought lacked a little detail. want to
add to it, but uh we might have some
further discussion about that in future
if we feel as a board that we'd like to
see a little more. But no, no, no. We're
getting
>> Okay.
And just as a question, it goes through
it goes through Kate to Marina and then
back to you, Rob.
>> Well, Kate usually just puts the minutes
in our packet.
>> Got it. Okay.
So, I don't know exactly what the
process is between those two.
Um, but yeah, it's usually it's Kate I
rely on to to get that in our packet for
us.
Um,
this is basically nothing and it's flat.
Uh, board of assessment appeals. Again,
these are such tiny numbers.
Um, zoning board of appeals again same
thing. Economic development commission
is
tcc membership it.
All right. I'm not quite sure what's
going on there
with this cut,
>> huh? I guess we haven't been spending
it.
>> See if they wrote anything.
>> Yeah, I wrote down with a question mark
on it, but there's no
Let's see.
I don't know why it's down. Was there a
Was there a sign or something that went
up? No. Oh, that but
>> a welcome to Andover sign this year was
that was last year maybe.
>> Yeah. And then we have the second sign,
but this here I mean it's a it's a huge
drop. So then we didn't spend unless
unless it's still come because we
haven't put the sign in. That's probably
what it is. So this Okay. Okay. Because
if you look in the past, that's what it
is.
>> But now we need to look at the
beautifification amount.
Right.
>> Put those together. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Is there an overlap?
>> Okay. These are
some commissions in town. Um
just need more clerking I guess for more
meetings. Britains and wet wetlands.
Okay. Um
so it's a big percentage jump, but I
mean it's $500.
And there you go. Total. So that is and
that's remember this is with whatever
we've this this is um
words are hard. Four and a half% is is
what it looks like right now. And again
that number is fuzzy as heck. Don't take
that anywhere.
Uh,
>> but that's that's the town's operation
budget, right? And then we have to look
at, you know, and this is where, you
know, there's a lot of important stuff
in here that we're going to have to talk
about. The one that's pretty locked in
obviously is this one because that's the
lease on the firetruck.
I mean, I think that's the minimum
because that's the lease on the
firetruck
>> and the plow.
>> H
>> and the plow. Don't he still have the
127 on the plow?
>> Uh quite possibly.
You mean is it you're talking about
>> we'll have to look Yeah. Not not the
fire engine. The fire engine. We have
that locked in because there's a 10-year
loan on it.
>> Yeah. There's a lease.
>> The one underneath it is I believe the
same issue. The 125.
>> We have to look at that. I don't know
when it expires.
>> Yeah. Um but yeah this one this one
there's nothing you can do about these
numbers basically these um
this is just building up for the next
reval we have to be doing that
contingency this is what we put in every
year uh this one will I think bears some
discussion
as to where we're on where we are on
that and and what's in the fund and what
we're using it for. Um,
so this here again it's a this is the
lease amount but then the next question
is okay Wally what are you coming down
the pike for fire department equipment
do we start you know and what's in the
fund now and what are we looking like if
in five years we need you know something
do we have the money and does you know
or do we need to do something with this
number road improvement this is you know
this is a little bit of an interesting
fund because it's
we're using it every, you know, we we
tend to be using this every year in
addition to our town aid road money. Put
those two together. That's the road work
we do. Uh we usually try to do about 400
a year. Um last year we ended up at 385.
As you can see, it was 410 the year
prior.
Tree removal we've had a lot of success
with partnering with Eversource. Eric
was pretty rightfully proud of the
progress we've made there. 50,000 has
been the number. And frankly, given the
progress we've made, I I think we've
spent, you know, really good money
there. But we should probably at least
ask
uh once we have a town administrator or
maybe talk to the public works guys what
they think. I don't know who's the best
person to ask as to whether this is the
appropriate going forward number
>> given where we're at.
>> H
>> Scott Fone is the best person to ask for
that right now.
>> Okay. Well, you guys are going to talk
about this stuff as well as a select
board, right? So, and he's on there. So,
let me know if he has
if you, you know, if you guys have
thoughts. Bridges and covers. I say
here's another one. This is my personal,
you know, the one I the big one, the one
I'm worried about, you know, as to
whether or not we got we're going to
be able to deal with all the bridges and
covers because the the costs of this
have really risen.
um
building maintenance fund. I can't
remember why we cut this down, but we we
very much did.
So, I had to think about that. I can't
remember.
>> AS Capital.
>> You had cut it because you had to reduce
the total.
>> So, that's where it came out of.
>> I don't Okay. I'm trying to remember. I
I don't recall. I remember us cutting
the road. I don't remember us cutting
the m the building maintenance fund, but
Obviously, we did
an open space is a as you can see it's a
it's a fairly
well that looks like we cut that down
too. This is another one to look at and
to see what are we actually using it on.
What do we have in there? Is this an
appropriate level or did we cut this in
desperation to pass a budget and does it
need to be looked at?
I think it
>> Yeah, I mean it's entirely that all
makes total sense. My my memory was
probably because I was all traumatized
about cutting the road fund and I forgot
the other two.
I hated that cut so much. Um, okay. So,
and then down here you get your your
totals. Uh, and
as you can see with these two, you know,
and then it nets out. And again, this is
a this is a this isn't a real number.
You know, right now expenditures are at
5.9. We have a little revenue bump. So
the actual if we had the amount to be
raised by taxation tab, the mill rate
tab, it wouldn't be this number here,
but it would probably be close because
this number's up. You know, you got to
account for the revenue.
So that's what we have so far, guys. Um
the if those of us who remember, you
know, last year who were here, as you
recall, you know, there's a little more
to the spreadsheet once we get it fully
built out.
Um but we'll I'm sure we'll continue to
work with Lisa and get there.
But there you go. There's your first
walkthrough of our
budget. And I don't know about you, but
I'm fried. It's 9:20.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm slowing down here.
>> I hope I haven't put anybody to sleep.
Uh, but we have a lot to do and I think
it was at least I hope Heather and Nick
I hope you guys found that helpful.
>> I did. Thank you.
>> Okay, great. I'm going to save this
RG.
Okay, this is obviously not the chart,
but uh I'm I like to have my own to play
with. So, this is mine. It is my
spreadsheet and it is mine. Okay, I'm
going to stop sharing, guys.
Uh, how do I stop sharing? Bloody hell.
Stop share. There it is. Thank you.
All right,
that's all right. So, unless anybody has
anything further, um, I'd like to move
on to correspondence and public speak.
um
correspondence. I mean, I guess I would
mention that I think hopefully you've
all seen it by now, but we've had
additional legal opinions come around
and be presented. Um
I think that's all I've got for that for
that item.
And um
so I'd like to move on and do a last
round of public speak. Um,
let's see. Where are my participants?
Who's left?
So, apologies for the length of the
meeting, everybody. Um, that's going to
public speak. Brienne, uh, I hope I'm
saying your name right, by the way.
>> No, nothing at this.
>> Okay. Thank you. Uh, Jenny Morurell,
>> nothing. Thank you.
>> All right. Thank you. And Joanne,
>> all set. Thanks, Rob.
as always.
Okay. Um,
>> many people left.
>> H,
>> not many people left actually. Carol.
Carol as well.
>> Oh, yes. Sorry. I I keep thinking select
board member, but yes, you're right.
Carol, do you have anything to add?
>> It's okay. I'm all set. Thank you.
>> Thanks for the info you gave us tonight.
It was helpful.
Okay. Um,
>> about Jim.
>> Do I have a motion? Oh, well, Jim. Jim
is
>> this will be our last meeting with him
tonight.
>> Yeah. Okay. That's that's a very good
point. Jim, thank you for your service
and I I hope you enjoy your new place.
>> Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you
for the opportunity. It was great
working with you and I'm a little cook
too today. So,
>> we're definitely definitely going to
miss you and uh never forgive you for
leaving us.
>> That's why he had to move to another
state. Uh in any event,
>> he had my vote.
>> He knows how it works.
>> Had my vote.
Uh, all right. Well, yeah. So, good luck
with everything, Jim. And, um, can I get
a motion to adjurnn?
>> I'll make a motion to adjurnn.
>> Excellent.
>> Was that
>> Was that you, Liz?
>> L second.
>> And you you motioned.
>> I motioned.
>> Sorry, I have my the when I shared my
screen, it screwed up my vision of
everybody. Hi, I'm doing
>> motioning. I'm motioning. In any event,
uh, all in favor, please.
>> I,
>> I.
>> Many opposed.
Good.
Thank you all. Uh,